



## Charts, contexts, families

Before customizing the standard web dashboard, creating a custom dashboard,
configuring an alarm, or writing a collector, it's crucial to understand how
Netdata organizes metrics into charts, dimensions, families, and contexts.

### Charts

A **chart** is an individual, interactive, always-updating graphic displaying
one or more collected/calculated metrics. Charts are generated by
[collectors](/collectors/README.md). 

Here's the system CPU chart, the first chart displayed on the standard
dashboard:

![Screenshot of the system CPU chart in the Netdata
dashboard](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/1153921/62720972-0b8a8e80-b9c0-11e9-930b-4829f7b17cfd.png)

Netdata displays a chart's name in parentheses above the chart. For example, if
you navigate to the system CPU chart, you'll see the label: **Total CPU
utilization (system.cpu)**. In this case, the chart's name is `system.cpu`.
Netdata derives the name from the chart's [context](#contexts).

### Dimensions

A **dimension** is a value that gets shown on a chart. The value can be raw data
or calculated values, such as percentages, aggregates, and more.

Charts are capable of showing more than one dimension. Netdata shows these
dimensions on the right side of the chart, beneath the date and time. Again, the
`system.cpu` chart will serve as a good example.

![Screenshot of the dimensions shown in the system CPU chart in the Netdata
dashboard](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/1153921/62721031-2bba4d80-b9c0-11e9-9dca-32403617ce72.png)

Here, the `system.cpu` chart is showing many dimensions, such as `user`,
`system`, `softirq`, `irq`, and more.

Note that other applications sometimes use the word _series_ instead of
_dimension_.

### Families

A **family** is _one_ instance of a monitored hardware or software resource that
needs to be monitored and displayed separately from similar instances. 

For example, if your system has multiple disk drives at `sda` and `sdb`, Netdata
will put each interface into their own family. Same goes for software resources,
like multiple MySQL instances. We call these instances "families" because the
charts associated with a single disk instance, for example, are often related to
each other. Relatives, family... get it?

When relevant, Netdata prefers to organize charts by family. When you visit the
**Disks** section, you will see your disk drives organized into families, and
each family will have one or more charts: `disk`, `disk_ops`, `disk_backlog`,
`disk_util`, `disk_await`, `disk_avgsz`, `disk_svctm`, `disk_mops`, and
`disk_iotime`.

In the screenshot below, the disk family `sdb` shows a few gauges, followed by a
few of the associated charts:

![Screenshot of a disk drive family and associated charts in the Netdata
dashboard](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/1153921/62721362-e34f5f80-b9c0-11e9-8d2e-9a3bec48e920.png)

Netdata also creates separate submenu entries for each family in the right
navigation page so you can easily navigate to the instance you're interested in.
Here, Netdata has made several submenus under the **Disk** menu.

![Screenshot of the disks menu and
submenus](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/1153921/62721531-3cb78e80-b9c1-11e9-89c2-fdd736aec7d4.png)

### Contexts

A **context** is a way of grouping charts by the types of metrics collected and
dimensions displayed. Different charts with the same context will show the same
dimensions, but for different instances (families) of hardware/software
resources.

For example, the **Disks** section will often use many contexts (`disk.io`,
`disk.ops`, `disk.backlog`, `disk.util`, and so on). Netdata then creates an
individual chart for each context, and groups them by family.

Netdata names charts according to their context according to the following
structure: `[context].[family]`. A chart with the `disk.util` context, in the
`sdb` family, gets the name `disk_util.sdb`. Netdata shows that name in the
top-left corner of a chart.

Given the four example contexts, and two families of `sdb` and `sdd`, Netdata
will create the following charts and their names:

Context | `sdb` family | `sdd` family
--- | --- | ---
`disk.io` | `disk_io.sdb` | `disk_io.sdd`
`disk.ops` | `disk_ops.sdb` | `disk_ops.sdd`
`disk.backlog` | `disk_backlog.sdb` | `disk_backlog.sdd`
`disk.util` | `disk_util.sdb` | `disk_util.sdd`

And here's what two of those charts in the `disk.io` context look like under
`sdb` and `sdd` families:

![context_01](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/1153921/62728232-177e4c80-b9d0-11e9-9e29-2a6c59d4d873.png)
![context_02](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/1153921/62728234-1b11d380-b9d0-11e9-8904-07befd8ac592.png)

As you can see in the screenshot, you can view the context of a chart if you
hover over the date above the list of dimensions. A tooltip will appear that
shows you two pieces of information: the collector that produces the chart, and
the chart's context.

Netdata also uses [contexts for alarm templates](/health/REFERENCE.md#alarm-line-on). You can create an alarm for the
`net.packets` context to receive alerts for any chart with that context, no matter which family it's attached to.